{"technique_id":"T1594","technique_name":"Search Victim-Owned Websites","description":"Adversaries may search websites owned by the victim for information that can be used during targeting. Victim-owned websites may contain a variety of details, including names of departments/divisions, physical locations, and data about key employees such as names, roles, and contact info (ex: Email Addresses). These sites may also have details highlighting business operations and relationships. Adversaries may search victim-owned websites to gather actionable information. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts), and/or initial access (ex: Trusted Relationship or Phishing). In addition to manually browsing the website, adversaries may attempt to identify hidden directories or files that could contain additional sensitive information or vulnerable functionality. They may do this through automated activities such as Wordlist Scanning, as well as by leveraging files such as sitemap.xml and robots.txt.","detection":"Monitor for suspicious network traffic that could be indicative of adversary reconnaissance, such as rapid successions of requests indicative of web crawling and/or large quantities of requests originating from a single source (especially if the source is known to be associated with an adversary). Analyzing web metadata may also reveal artifacts that can be attributed to potentially malicious activity, such as referer or user-agent string HTTP/S fields.","procedures":["[G0122] Silent Librarian: Silent Librarian has searched victim's websites to identify the interests and academic areas of targeted individuals and to scrape source code, branding, and organizational contact information for phishing pages.","[C0029] Cutting Edge: During Cutting Edge, threat actors peformed reconnaissance of victims' internal websites via proxied connections.","[G0094] Kimsuky: Kimsuky has searched for information on the target company's website.","[G1017] Volt Typhoon: Volt Typhoon has conducted pre-compromise reconnaissance on victim-owned sites.","[G1011] EXOTIC LILY: EXOTIC LILY has used contact forms on victim websites to generate phishing e-mails.","[C0049] Leviathan Australian Intrusions: Leviathan enumerated compromised web application resources to identify additional endpoints and resources linkd to the website for follow-on access during Leviathan Australian Intrusions.","[G0034] Sandworm Team: Sandworm Team has conducted research against potential victim websites as part of its operational planning.","[G1038] TA578: TA578 has filled out contact forms on victims' websites to direct them to adversary-controlled URLs.","[C0040] APT41 DUST: APT41 DUST involved access of external victim websites for target development."],"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1595.001","technique_name":"Active Scanning: Scanning IP Blocks","description":"Adversaries may scan victim IP blocks to gather information that can be used during targeting. Public IP addresses may be allocated to organizations by block, or a range of sequential addresses. Adversaries may scan IP blocks in order to Gather Victim Network Information, such as which IP addresses are actively in use as well as more detailed information about hosts assigned these addresses. Scans may range from simple pings (ICMP requests and responses) to more nuanced scans that may reveal host software/versions via server banners or other network artifacts. Information from these scans may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services).","detection":"Monitor for suspicious network traffic that could be indicative of scanning, such as large quantities originating from a single source (especially if the source is known to be associated with an adversary/botnet). Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":["[G1003] Ember Bear: Ember Bear has targeted IP ranges for vulnerability scanning related to government and critical infrastructure organizations.","[G0139] TeamTNT: TeamTNT has scanned specific lists of target IP addresses."],"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1595.002","technique_name":"Active Scanning: Vulnerability Scanning","description":"Adversaries may scan victims for vulnerabilities that can be used during targeting. Vulnerability scans typically check if the configuration of a target host/application (ex: software and version) potentially aligns with the target of a specific exploit the adversary may seek to use. These scans may also include more broad attempts to Gather Victim Host Information that can be used to identify more commonly known, exploitable vulnerabilities. Vulnerability scans typically harvest running software and version numbers via server banners, listening ports, or other network artifacts. Information from these scans may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: Exploit Public-Facing Application).","detection":"Monitor for suspicious network traffic that could be indicative of scanning, such as large quantities originating from a single source (especially if the source is known to be associated with an adversary/botnet). Analyzing web metadata may also reveal artifacts that can be attributed to potentially malicious activity, such as referer or user-agent string HTTP/S fields. Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":["[G0034] Sandworm Team: Sandworm Team has scanned network infrastructure for vulnerabilities as part of its operational planning.","[C0029] Cutting Edge: During Cutting Edge, threat actors used the publicly available Interactsh tool to identify Ivanti Connect Secure VPNs vulnerable to CVE-2024-21893.","[G0123] Volatile Cedar: Volatile Cedar has performed vulnerability scans of the target server.","[G0065] Leviathan: Leviathan has conducted reconnaissance against target networks of interest looking for vulnerable, end-of-life, or no longer maintainted devices against which to rapidly deploy exploits.","[G1003] Ember Bear: Ember Bear has used publicly available tools such as MASSCAN and Acunetix for vulnerability scanning of public-facing infrastructure.","[G0096] APT41: APT41 used the Acunetix SQL injection vulnerability scanner in target reconnaissance operations, as well as the JexBoss tool to identify vulnerabilities in Java applications.","[G0139] TeamTNT: TeamTNT has scanned for vulnerabilities in IoT devices and other related resources such as the Docker API.","[G0007] APT28: APT28 has performed large-scale scans in an attempt to find vulnerable servers.","[G0059] Magic Hound: Magic Hound has conducted widespread scanning to identify public-facing systems vulnerable to CVE-2021-44228 in Log4j and ProxyShell vulnerabilities; CVE-2021-26855, CVE-2021-26857, CVE-2021-26858, and CVE-2021-27065 in on-premises MS Exchange Servers; and CVE-2018-13379 in Fortinet FortiOS SSL VPNs.","[G0016] APT29: APT29 has conducted widespread scanning of target environments to identify vulnerabilities for exploit.","[G1035] Winter Vivern: Winter Vivern has used remotely-hosted instances of the Acunetix vulnerability scanner.","[G0143] Aquatic Panda: Aquatic Panda has used publicly accessible DNS logging services to identify servers vulnerable to Log4j (CVE 2021-44228).","[G0035] Dragonfly: Dragonfly has scanned targeted systems for vulnerable Citrix and Microsoft Exchange services.","[G1006] Earth Lusca: Earth Lusca has scanned for vulnerabilities in the public-facing servers of their targets."],"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1595.003","technique_name":"Active Scanning: Wordlist Scanning","description":"Adversaries may iteratively probe infrastructure using brute-forcing and crawling techniques. While this technique employs similar methods to Brute Force, its goal is the identification of content and infrastructure rather than the discovery of valid credentials. Wordlists used in these scans may contain generic, commonly used names and file extensions or terms specific to a particular software. Adversaries may also create custom, target-specific wordlists using data gathered from other Reconnaissance techniques (ex: Gather Victim Org Information, or Search Victim-Owned Websites). For example, adversaries may use web content discovery tools such as Dirb, DirBuster, and GoBuster and generic or custom wordlists to enumerate a website’s pages and directories. This can help them to discover old, vulnerable pages or hidden administrative portals that could become the target of further operations (ex: Exploit Public-Facing Application or Brute Force). As cloud storage solutions typically use globally unique names, adversaries may also use target-specific wordlists and tools such as s3recon and GCPBucketBrute to enumerate public and private buckets on cloud infrastructure. Once storage objects are discovered, adversaries may leverage Data from Cloud Storage to access valuable information that can be exfiltrated or used to escalate privileges and move laterally.","detection":"Monitor for suspicious network traffic that could be indicative of scanning, such as large quantities originating from a single source (especially if the source is known to be associated with an adversary/botnet). Monitor for access to S3 buckets, especially those that are not intended to be publicly accessible. Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":["[G0096] APT41: APT41 leverages various tools and frameworks to brute-force directories on web servers.","[G0123] Volatile Cedar: Volatile Cedar has used DirBuster and GoBuster to brute force web directories and DNS subdomains."],"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1596.001","technique_name":"Search Open Technical Databases: DNS/Passive DNS","description":"Adversaries may search DNS data for information about victims that can be used during targeting. DNS information may include a variety of details, including registered name servers as well as records that outline addressing for a target’s subdomains, mail servers, and other hosts. Adversaries may search DNS data to gather actionable information. Threat actors can query nameservers for a target organization directly, or search through centralized repositories of logged DNS query responses (known as passive DNS). Adversaries may also seek and target DNS misconfigurations/leaks that reveal information about internal networks. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Victim-Owned Websites or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Trusted Relationship).","detection":"Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":null,"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1596.002","technique_name":"Search Open Technical Databases: WHOIS","description":"Adversaries may search public WHOIS data for information about victims that can be used during targeting. WHOIS data is stored by regional Internet registries (RIR) responsible for allocating and assigning Internet resources such as domain names. Anyone can query WHOIS servers for information about a registered domain, such as assigned IP blocks, contact information, and DNS nameservers. Adversaries may search WHOIS data to gather actionable information. Threat actors can use online resources or command-line utilities to pillage through WHOIS data for information about potential victims. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Active Scanning or Phishing for Information), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Trusted Relationship).","detection":"Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":null,"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1596.003","technique_name":"Search Open Technical Databases: Digital Certificates","description":"Adversaries may search public digital certificate data for information about victims that can be used during targeting. Digital certificates are issued by a certificate authority (CA) in order to cryptographically verify the origin of signed content. These certificates, such as those used for encrypted web traffic (HTTPS SSL/TLS communications), contain information about the registered organization such as name and location. Adversaries may search digital certificate data to gather actionable information. Threat actors can use online resources and lookup tools to harvest information about certificates. Digital certificate data may also be available from artifacts signed by the organization (ex: certificates used from encrypted web traffic are served with content). Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Active Scanning or Phishing for Information), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Trusted Relationship).","detection":"Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":null,"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1596.004","technique_name":"Search Open Technical Databases: CDNs","description":"Adversaries may search content delivery network (CDN) data about victims that can be used during targeting. CDNs allow an organization to host content from a distributed, load balanced array of servers. CDNs may also allow organizations to customize content delivery based on the requestor’s geographical region. Adversaries may search CDN data to gather actionable information. Threat actors can use online resources and lookup tools to harvest information about content servers within a CDN. Adversaries may also seek and target CDN misconfigurations that leak sensitive information not intended to be hosted and/or do not have the same protection mechanisms (ex: login portals) as the content hosted on the organization’s website. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Active Scanning or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: Drive-by Compromise).","detection":"Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":null,"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1596.005","technique_name":"Search Open Technical Databases: Scan Databases","description":"Adversaries may search within public scan databases for information about victims that can be used during targeting. Various online services continuously publish the results of Internet scans/surveys, often harvesting information such as active IP addresses, hostnames, open ports, certificates, and even server banners. Adversaries may search scan databases to gather actionable information. Threat actors can use online resources and lookup tools to harvest information from these services. Adversaries may seek information about their already identified targets, or use these datasets to discover opportunities for successful breaches. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Active Scanning or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Exploit Public-Facing Application).","detection":"Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":["[G0096] APT41: APT41 uses the Chinese website fofa.su, similar to the Shodan scanning service, for passive scanning of victims.","[C0040] APT41 DUST: APT41 DUST used internet scan data for target development.","[G1017] Volt Typhoon: Volt Typhoon has used FOFA, Shodan, and Censys to search for exposed victim infrastructure."],"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1597.001","technique_name":"Search Closed Sources: Threat Intel Vendors","description":"Adversaries may search private data from threat intelligence vendors for information that can be used during targeting. Threat intelligence vendors may offer paid feeds or portals that offer more data than what is publicly reported. Although sensitive details (such as customer names and other identifiers) may be redacted, this information may contain trends regarding breaches such as target industries, attribution claims, and successful TTPs/countermeasures. Adversaries may search in private threat intelligence vendor data to gather actionable information. Threat actors may seek information/indicators gathered about their own campaigns, as well as those conducted by other adversaries that may align with their target industries, capabilities/objectives, or other operational concerns. Information reported by vendors may also reveal opportunities other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: Exploit Public-Facing Application or External Remote Services).","detection":"Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":null,"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1597.002","technique_name":"Search Closed Sources: Purchase Technical Data","description":"Adversaries may purchase technical information about victims that can be used during targeting. Information about victims may be available for purchase within reputable private sources and databases, such as paid subscriptions to feeds of scan databases or other data aggregation services. Adversaries may also purchase information from less-reputable sources such as dark web or cybercrime blackmarkets. Adversaries may purchase information about their already identified targets, or use purchased data to discover opportunities for successful breaches. Threat actors may gather various technical details from purchased data, including but not limited to employee contact information, credentials, or specifics regarding a victim’s infrastructure. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Valid Accounts).","detection":"Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":["[G1004] LAPSUS$: LAPSUS$ has purchased credentials and session tokens from criminal underground forums."],"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1598.001","technique_name":"Phishing for Information: Spearphishing Service","description":"Adversaries may send spearphishing messages via third-party services to elicit sensitive information that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Spearphishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a reason to collect information (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts) and/or sending multiple, seemingly urgent messages. All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries send messages through various social media services, personal webmail, and other non-enterprise controlled services. These services are more likely to have a less-strict security policy than an enterprise. As with most kinds of spearphishing, the goal is to generate rapport with the target or get the target's interest in some way. Adversaries may create fake social media accounts and message employees for potential job opportunities. Doing so allows a plausible reason for asking about services, policies, and information about their environment. Adversaries may also use information from previous reconnaissance efforts (ex: Social Media or Search Victim-Owned Websites) to craft persuasive and believable lures.","detection":"Monitor social media traffic for suspicious activity, including messages requesting information as well as abnormal file or data transfers (especially those involving unknown, or otherwise suspicious accounts). Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection difficult for defenders. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.","procedures":["[C0027] C0027: During C0027, Scattered Spider sent Telegram messages impersonating IT personnel to harvest credentials."],"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1598.002","technique_name":"Phishing for Information: Spearphishing Attachment","description":"Adversaries may send spearphishing messages with a malicious attachment to elicit sensitive information that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Spearphishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a reason to collect information (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts) and/or sending multiple, seemingly urgent messages. All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries attach a file to the spearphishing email. In some cases, they may rely upon the recipient populating information, then returning the file. The text of the spearphishing email usually tries to give a plausible reason why the file should be filled-in, such as a request for information from a business associate. In other cases, adversaries may leverage techniques such as HTML Smuggling to harvest user credentials via fake login portals. Adversaries may also use information from previous reconnaissance efforts (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Victim-Owned Websites) to craft persuasive and believable lures.","detection":"Monitor for suspicious email activity, such as numerous accounts receiving messages from a single unusual/unknown sender. Filtering based on DKIM+SPF or header analysis can help detect when the email sender is spoofed.","procedures":["[G0035] Dragonfly: Dragonfly has used spearphishing with Microsoft Office attachments to enable harvesting of user credentials.","[G1033] Star Blizzard: Star Blizzard has sent emails to establish rapport with targets eventually sending messages with attachments containing links to credential-stealing sites.","[G0121] Sidewinder: Sidewinder has sent e-mails with malicious attachments that lead victims to credential harvesting websites.","[G1008] SideCopy: SideCopy has crafted generic lures for spam campaigns to collect emails and credentials for targeting efforts."],"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1598.003","technique_name":"Phishing for Information: Spearphishing Link","description":"Adversaries may send spearphishing messages with a malicious link to elicit sensitive information that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Spearphishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a reason to collect information (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts) and/or sending multiple, seemingly urgent messages. All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social engineering targeted at a specific individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, the malicious emails contain links generally accompanied by social engineering text to coax the user to actively click or copy and paste a URL into a browser. The given website may be a clone of a legitimate site (such as an online or corporate login portal) or may closely resemble a legitimate site in appearance and have a URL containing elements from the real site. URLs may also be obfuscated by taking advantage of quirks in the URL schema, such as the acceptance of integer- or hexadecimal-based hostname formats and the automatic discarding of text before an “@” symbol: for example, `hxxp://google.com@1157586937`. Adversaries may also embed “tracking pixels”, \"web bugs\", or \"web beacons\" within phishing messages to verify the receipt of an email, while also potentially profiling and tracking victim information such as IP address. These mechanisms often appear as small images (typically one pixel in size) or otherwise obfuscated objects and are typically delivered as HTML code containing a link to a remote server. Adversaries may also be able to spoof a complete website using what is known as a \"browser-in-the-browser\" (BitB) attack. By generating a fake browser popup window with an HTML-based address bar that appears to contain a legitimate URL (such as an authentication portal), they may be able to prompt users to enter their credentials while bypassing typical URL verification methods. Adversaries can use phishing kits such as `EvilProxy` and `Evilginx2` to perform adversary-in-the-middle phishing by proxying the connection between the victim and the legitimate website. On a successful login, the victim is redirected to the legitimate website, while the adversary captures their session cookie (i.e., Steal Web Session Cookie) in addition to their username and password. This may enable the adversary to then bypass MFA via Web Session Cookie. Adversaries may also send a malicious link in the form of Quick Response (QR) Codes (also known as “quishing”). These links may direct a victim to a credential phishing page. By using a QR code, the URL may not be exposed in the email and may thus go undetected by most automated email security scans. These QR codes may be scanned by or delivered directly to a user’s mobile device (i.e., Phishing), which may be less secure in several relevant ways. For example, mobile users may not be able to notice minor differences between genuine and credential harvesting websites due to mobile’s smaller form factor. From the fake website, information is gathered in web forms and sent to the adversary. Adversaries may also use information from previous reconnaissance efforts (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Victim-Owned Websites) to craft persuasive and believable lures.","detection":"Monitor for suspicious email activity, such as numerous accounts receiving messages from a single unusual/unknown sender. Filtering based on DKIM+SPF or header analysis can help detect when the email sender is spoofed. Monitor for references to uncategorized or known-bad sites. URL inspection within email (including expanding shortened links) can also help detect links leading to known malicious sites.","procedures":["[G0121] Sidewinder: Sidewinder has sent e-mails with malicious links to credential harvesting websites.","[G0129] Mustang Panda: Mustang Panda has delivered web bugs to profile their intended targets.","[G0034] Sandworm Team: Sandworm Team has crafted spearphishing emails with hyperlinks designed to trick unwitting recipients into revealing their account credentials.","[G0122] Silent Librarian: Silent Librarian has used links in e-mails to direct victims to credential harvesting websites designed to appear like the targeted organization's login page.","[S0677] AADInternals: AADInternals can send phishing emails containing malicious links designed to collect users’ credentials.","[G0128] ZIRCONIUM: ZIRCONIUM has used web beacons in e-mails to track hits to attacker-controlled URL's.","[G0050] APT32: APT32 has used malicious links to direct users to web pages designed to harvest credentials.","[G0094] Kimsuky: Kimsuky has used links in e-mail to steal account information including web beacons for target profiling.","[G0059] Magic Hound: Magic Hound has used SMS and email messages with links designed to steal credentials or track victims.","[S0649] SMOKEDHAM: SMOKEDHAM has been delivered via malicious links in phishing emails.","[G0007] APT28: APT28 has conducted credential phishing campaigns with links that redirect to credential harvesting sites.","[G1033] Star Blizzard: Star Blizzard has sent emails to establish rapport with targets eventually sending messages with links to credential-stealing sites.","[G1036] Moonstone Sleet: Moonstone Sleet used spearphishing messages containing items such as tracking pixels to determine if users interacted with malicious messages.","[G1012] CURIUM: CURIUM used malicious links to adversary-controlled resources for credential harvesting.","[G0035] Dragonfly: Dragonfly has used spearphishing with PDF attachments containing malicious links that redirected to credential harvesting websites.","[G0040] Patchwork: Patchwork has used embedded image tags (known as web bugs) with unique, per-recipient tracking links in their emails for the purpose of identifying which recipients opened messages."],"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}
{"technique_id":"T1598.004","technique_name":"Phishing for Information: Spearphishing Voice","description":"Adversaries may use voice communications to elicit sensitive information that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Spearphishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a reason to collect information (ex: Impersonation) and/or creating a sense of urgency or alarm for the recipient. All forms of phishing are electronically delivered social engineering. In this scenario, adversaries use phone calls to elicit sensitive information from victims. Known as voice phishing (or \"vishing\"), these communications can be manually executed by adversaries, hired call centers, or even automated via robocalls. Voice phishers may spoof their phone number while also posing as a trusted entity, such as a business partner or technical support staff. Victims may also receive phishing messages that direct them to call a phone number (\"callback phishing\") where the adversary attempts to collect confidential information. Adversaries may also use information from previous reconnaissance efforts (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Victim-Owned Websites) to tailor pretexts to be even more persuasive and believable for the victim.","detection":null,"procedures":["[C0027] C0027: During C0027, Scattered Spider used phone calls to instruct victims to navigate to credential-harvesting websites.","[G1004] LAPSUS$: LAPSUS$ has called victims' help desk to convince the support personnel to reset a privileged account’s credentials.","[G1015] Scattered Spider: During C0027, Scattered Spider used phone calls to instruct victims to navigate to credential-harvesting websites. Scattered Spider has also called employees at target organizations and compelled them to navigate to fake login portals using adversary-in-the-middle toolkits."],"tactics":"TA0043 - Reconnaissance"}